|01Jesse Ward                                                     February 17, 2015
|01jesse@jesseward.com                                            www.jesseward.com
|01github.com/jesseward


 |01Education

      Conestoga College                                            Kitchener, ON
  •
      Diploma, Computer Programmer                                     2000-2002
        – Relevant courses: Database design, Systems programming in C, Object 
          Oriented Design (Java I, II, III)

 |01Skills

  • Development: Proficient in Python, PHP, golang and shell scripting (BASH).
  • System Administration: Highly experienced in Linux systems administration,
    particularly with Red Hat Enterprise Linux and SuSe Linux Enterprise Server.
    Also experienced in SUN Solaris administration (on SPARC architecture).
  • Web technologies: Solid experience deploying and tuning large scale 
    installations of Apache Server, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse Jetty, Bea (Oracle)
    Weblogic. Strong focus on load distribution at both layers 4 and 7 with
    services such as the F5 Local Traffic Manager, NGiNX. Advanced knowledge of
    the Python based Django and Bottle web development frameworks.
  • Database technologies: Thorough understanding of the Oracle, PostgreSQL and
    MySQL database platforms, and a solid foundation in SQL.
  • Virtualization: Solid foundation in VMWare ideologies and best practices.
    Experience designing, deploying and administering many VMware environments.
    Includes early versions of GSX, up to current vCenter w/ ESXi v5 hosts.

 |01Work Experience

      LinkedIn                                                 Mountain View, CA
  •
      Senior SRE - Graph and Analytics                   February 2014 - current
        – Supporting infrastructure that provides LinkedIn’s recommendation and
          relevance systems. Ensuring services scale and remain responsive.

      BlackBerry                                                    Waterloo, ON
  •
      Systems Engineer - Lawful Access Systems      October 2010 - February 2014
        – Responsible for architecture and design, deployment and sizing for 10s
          of millions of users, configuration, monitoring, maintenance and
          support of the BlackBerry global Lawful Access  infrastructure and 
          application suite. Operational and On-Call duties include  application
          and system performance investigation, planning and deployment of system
          wide upgrades.
        – Wrote a network protocol and binary file format analysis tool that
          allows users to read and parse or inject sample data into the network
          stream. These tools aid in the reassembly of numerous protocols and
          their payload (both open RFC standards and BlackBerry proprietary).
          Portions of this work was committed to upstream open source projects.
        – Developed a light-weight configuration management tool in python that
          automates deployment and configuration of software packages targeted
          for Red Hat Enterprise Linux hosts.
        – Researched and then deployed various types of load-balancing 
          solutions for our unique set of tools. Solutions were comprised of
          the following technologies : standard HTTP balancing (and static 
          caches) via NGiNX, TCP pooling (with TLS) via HA-Proxy, as well as IP
          fail-over via uCarp.
        – Designed, deployed and administered two VMWare lab environments.
          Both clusters consist of 10GbE network infrastructure, NetApp FAS NFS
          storage, IBM BladeCenter and Blade Series server architecture.
        – Led the launch of the BlackBerry 10 product from the Lawful Access
          perspective. Designed and deployed Lawful Access infrastructure for a
          handful of high-profile partners.
        – Wrote numerous web services built on top of Django as well as the
          Bottle web frameworks. These tools range from simple HTTP status code
          based APIs to full stack web applications calling message queues
          (Celery + Redis), persisting data into a relational database
          (PostgreSQL) and dynamically rendering the user interface (JQuery)
        – Led an initiative to migrate legacy web and network based
          applications into the BlackBerry private cloud infrastructure (Open
          Nebula). Tasks included : implementation of a configuration management
          solution (saltstack and Ansible), developing a solution for load
          balancing (round-robin dynamic dns + custom health check web api) and
          monitoring (ZenOss) and metrics (Graphite) solutions.

    Research In Motion (BlackBerry)                                 Waterloo, ON
•
    Team Lead - Infrastructure Engineering              June 2002 - October 2010
      – Led a team of five high performing system engineers.
      – Responsible for a set of labs within the BlackBerry infrastructure
        organization that support next-generation BlackBerry service offerings.
        The presence of these labs have assisted in the deployment BlackBerry
        (core infrastructure) services to hundreds of RIM partners (mobile
        network operators such as Verizon, China Mobile, Vodafone UK, Etisalat
        UAE).
      – Deployed and administered wireless messaging platform(s). These
        systems tightly interface with over 300 mobile network carriers
        worldwide and serve as the core backbone for BlackBerry data services.
        This provided seamless integration with the cellular IP services routed
        via CDMA, GSM and iDEN telecommunication networks.
      – Responsible for the administration and Tier III support of hundreds of
        UNIX (Solaris), Linux (Red Hat / SuSe), and MS Windows servers across
        multiple datcenters. This involves performance tuning, capacity planning
        and maintaining 24/7 availability of these systems.
      – Led several initiatives to reduce hardware cost, by moving targeted
        services to virtualized infrastructure running VMWare ESX, ESXi 4 and
        vCenter. Responsibility entailed the datacenter design, hardware
        selection, deployment and on-going support of the VMware clusters.
      – Designed many aspects of the BlackBerry Engineering labs. This
        included the capacity planning for future expansion, decisions on
        hardware architecture, and monitoring of these systems.
      – Wrote numerous plug-ins for the Nagios monitoring suite, in various
        scripting language (python, bash and php). Endpoints varying from VMWare
        hosts, SNMP targets, log scraping,Oracle result sets, NGiNX health
        metrics

    Sentex Data Communications                                    Cambridge, ON
•
    Systems Administrator and Technical Support            June 2001 - July 2002
      – Member of a team that was responsible for the day-to-day system
        administration and customer facing support duties of the Internet
        Service Provider. Duties include DNS zone file administration (Bind),
        Sendmail administration, and Apache virtual host configuration and
        management.

|01 Selected Open Source Projects


     gmctop (github.com/jesseward/gmctop)                                 golang
 •
     Memcache monitor                                                       2014
       – Locate hot running keys in your Memcache service.

     discogstagger (github.com/jesseward/discogstagger)                   Python
 •
     Audio metadata tagger.                                                 2010
       – Uses the discogs.com API to tag and score audio file metadata.

     plex-last-fm scrobbler (github.com/jesseward/plex-lastfm-scrobbler)  Python
 •
     Plugin for Plex Media Server                                           2014
       – Scrobble music to the last.fm service from your Plex Media Server.
